# Animated GIF representing NDVI for Nigeria.

This repo contains a code to obtain an animated GIF of 20 years median NDVI for Nigeria for serial 16 day MODIS composites. NDVI which stands for Normalized Difference Vegetation Index is a common reflectance-based vegetation index to analyze the growth and health of the vegetation of a place. The GIF shows the NDVI spanning January 1 through 31st December. The NDVI in the GIF is represented by two colors Green and Brown. Greener areas represent higher/ healthy vegetation cover and browner areas represent lower/unhealthy vegetation cover. The tide like effect which can be seen in the image is due to the sun’s declination moving between 23.5 deg North and 23.5 deg South, relative to the equator throughout the year. 
Higher NDVI values can be observed in the southern part especially in the South-eastern and South-western parts of the country whereas relatively lower NDVI values are observed in the northern part especially North-eastern and North-western parts of Nigeria. Higher values are could also be seen in the far North-eastern part of the country. Highest NDVI values are observed in the west along the forest region of Yoruba highlands and in the South-eastern part where the Cameroon Highlands are situated. The lowest NDVI values are found along the extreme North in the Sudan savannas where the most dominant vegetation types are shrub and herbs. Significant NDVI changes are visible in some smaller parts of the country near the cities which could be related to the urbanization of these cities. We can also see some small white areas in the NDVI image which represents the presence of water bodies. 
